when the surface is completely dry
the concrete is ready to be sealed
we strongly recommend that a coat of sealer
be applied to the surface prior to
engraving operations
to protect the stain
the exception to this will be when you plan to
accent stain after engraving
there are several options for the type of sealer
that are available
water based acrylics and solvent based acrylic
are the most common and will be covered
in this video
in the advanced video the use of epoxies and
urethanes will be covered
in most cases water based and solvent based
acrylics will meet your needs
while being more cost effective
and simpler in application
water based acrylic is described as
low odor
low cost low toxicity and works on interior
and exterior applications
this sealer can only be applied by roller or
airless spray system
the application of water based sealer with a
pump sprayer is not recommended
because areas where the material becomes too
thick are not likely to cure properly
and will remain milky
in cases where the use of solvents are
prohibited
water based acrylics may be your best solution
to sealing
any stained clean surface can accept water
based acrylic sealers
when rolling be sure to wrap your roller cover
with masking tape to remove loose lint
and fibers
solvent based acrylic sealer can be described
as high odor toxic
extremely easy to apply and best for use in
exterior environments
this sealer may be rolled on or sprayed on a
clean surface with acid based stains
if you used concrete resurrection water reducble
concentrate stain
solvent based sealers must be sprayed on
a professional grade metal pump sprayer
utilizing viton seals
is required when using solvent based sealers
special attention to personal safety is recommended
when using this product
remember to use safety goggles and masks
at a minimum
as you are spraying the sealer move the wand in
a circular motion
this will lay the sealer down more uniformly
on the concrete
be sure to follow manufactures directions for
re-coating while allowing for sufficient
drying time
remember when applying water based sealers to
RAC stained surfaces
the end result will be a duller surface
similar to dry stains
solvent based sealers will leave you with a
finished surface
which gives the appearance of a wet stained area
with a richer deeper and more vibrant color
expression